Good morning, folks.
Going to do a relatively short stream
today.
Got just a little bit over two hours
right now. Work on some things.
Ended up having a pretty busy
day yesterday.
Um, had to catch up on a couple things
this morning.
I think we're going to do just a couple
hours of stuff on the uh the world model
formulation
and then I'm pretty damn tired today
honestly. I got one meeting later.
So, we're kind of just going to look at
some stuff and then tomorrow is going to
be the uh
one second. Close that
calendar. Um, yeah, tomorrow will be the
uh the main day
for actually trying to make this stuff
work.
But who knows, maybe uh maybe we
actually make some progress in just a
little bit of time today. We'll we'll
see.
back. This
and seriously no cuda.
Hang on guys second.
Yes.
Up 47 47 hours.
[Music]
away windows.
All right, there is our container.
And yeah, here's our dreamer thing.
Cool. We were using cartpole, if I
recall.
Okay.
So, in my mind, right, cartpole is a
really really simple problem
and we like this should have been solved
a long time ago basically
like it shouldn't be this fiddly. We
shouldn't have weird problems going on.
And like you know you see there it is
doing better than random but like not by
much.
So I suppose the question is like what
is the minimal set of stuff we have to
do
toast?
Welcome.
What's up dog? Not much what's up with
you.
Welcome. Yeah I had a quick haircut. I
had a little time yesterday for that. Ms
are toast.
I don't know. I was thinking they're
more like croissant.
This should just totally work by now,
right? Like
pretty much anything if you sneeze in
the direction of cartpole, you should be
able to solve it.
The fact that I've kind of messed around
with world model stuff for threeish days
now and not have it like solve cart pole
is really sketchy.
So what do we do about this? Right?
And there a bunch of different things we
could look at for this.
It's not like with or without sampling
is a weird thing. Feel weird either way.
Uh we do have
we have like at least a little bit of
evidence
because
this is the world model training, right?
So if you just take this thing and we
uncomment these lines here,
right?
So this says that the uh instead of
hallucinating full trajectories, you're
hallucinating like one step.
This trains, right?
Huh? That used to train.
Maybe I just mega broke something.
It's not like it was good before even
when we had this though.
All right.
next state pretty easily. Uh if you're
only wanting it to predict one next
state, which would be let's just make
sure if I com if I just uncomment
correctly. Right?
So this is one next state predict.
This is what that is.
Going to PR SSM stuff maybe tomorrow.
Solving carpole kinds breakout get
locked in local maxima
added explo
there shouldn't be any like
like that basically shouldn't be a thing
and SSM stuff that's a pure architecture
change Okay.
We have here this is like basic RSSM
integrated with the world model.
Super bizarre.
How did I end up breaking this
rep loss?
MX loss
That still doesn't help.
Okay.
Stuff did I mess with? I messed with the
losses, right?
Welcome YouTube folks.
This is uh hacking on
attempting to get something dreamer
working.
It does really bother me though that
like we don't even have something basic
when I I literally implement like stupid
vanilla Q-learning and you'll
immediately solve um art pole with that.
So, it's kind of screwy that we still
don't have anything
really to show on the world model stuff.
Construction lost and MX lost.
Welcome square.
uses LSM for initial training and then
uses gates to transfer to SSM
like does it do anything
there should be um
I mean all these methods right you have
like you get all these papers where it's
like oh yeah it just beats everything
and then of course you go and actually
implement the thing and it just like
underperforms your baseline.
Solve cartpole in 200k steps.
200k steps
like uh not in the puffer
implementation, right?
With like default hypers because 200k
steps in the puffer implementation, it's
like you don't even get data back by
then on whether you've solved the task,
right? Because it's like 200 steps per
horizon.
Wait, hang on. How's that possible?
Because you have Whoops.
You have um
like was it 8192 environments?
Um
you get like only you're not getting
that many steps worth of data even see
if you've solved it in that number of
steps unless you dramatically mess with
the batch sizes.
custom prams. Yeah. So, the thing is
that like I'm sure there are also params
that you can solve it in 200k with the
baseline. No, I guess maybe I'm not
sure. Maybe not.
You'd want to see it working on the
harder tasks though, for sure.
I think breakout is like the simplest
task for which doing breakout better is
usually a decent indicator of something
being like generally useful.
Do I have to explain to you why that's
not a good branch name?
Rename that [__] But otherwise, I'm
happy to look at it
in here.
Oh, we have a lot of PRs.
Oh, screenshot. I see.
I thought that you named the branch that
going to say.
Let me look.
Yeah. Okay. I think you I assume you
mean some other screenshot than this or
you just trolling?
Wait, what am I looking at?
Oh, this
Okay.
7k SPS.
That's something screwy.
I'm going to look at it for sure when
you're ready with the PR.
What did you mean by the title?
Uh, we have I've been burned by world
models just not working in the past and
we're giving the stuff another chance
because we're out of other promising
directions. And it's I think that it is
the case that they will work. They're
just very janky.
100k. Okay, that's better at least.
It's definitely possible. I'm going to
need to actually like look at the
original paper on this on uh on those as
well if it's like S4 or whatever.
But for now, why how did I break this
thing?
What? What is going on here?
Super unstable.
I suppose we just go through carefully
and like see if I can find any problems
for the world model right and get the
real observation.
We run this forward
gives you previous you get previous
action. Okay,
this is the real action.
So
yes
encode H and X
the hat is just encode H
and Z h and Z
reconstruction as well
terminal
X at
the rewards you're aiming to predict
next rewards
correct
terminals.
I believe this is fine as well, right?
This is just um
dynamics and representation losses.
I didn't expect to have this be the uh
the situation when I sat down to work on
this today. I didn't realize I'd broken
it like that.
world model.
I've actually been meaning to go drop by
in uh in SF.
I heard Justin's there now. Justin was
um
like Justin was the first person I ever
worked with in in AI. He mentored me
while I was in literally high school.
It I still actually have the poster from
that. I did like a whole bunch of really
really janky stuff around early version
of visual genome.
Like,
no. It's really really weird actually
that this this version doesn't even
work.
What the heck could I have possibly
possibly broken?
It might just be worth looking through
change logs actually for this.
Do this first.
I guess this is the latest thing I did
was this KL loss, right?
if it was this kale.
There is something screw with the loss.
Yeah.
All right. Let's figure out uh what it
is.
Why are these so negative?
I go find the uh let me go find the
other version.
The KO lost in this
Apply stop gradient to posterior logit.
Then this is the exact same thing.
How's this thing getting applied
anyways?
prior
post.
Okay, so this is supposed to come from
the RSSM somehow.
This prior and post.
So, imagine step gives you
prior
and then obstep gives you
Oh, wait. No, obstep gives you both.
The heck?
Where's Prior?
Okay, so Prior comes from the
imagination step
13 to 15 seconds
at 100k.
That's like way better samples than what
we have now. But the thing is I know you
can solve cartpole in like almost no
steps. It's just that our
implementation's optimized purely for
wall clock, right? So, it's like a 3se
secondond wall clock or whatever or
less. Um,
I I would definitely want to see like if
you can get it to work on at least
breakout. That's kind of the minimum bar
for there being something to an
approach. Uh, I'm doing cartpole with
this based on
a fairly high degree of confidence that
this should at least be feasible.
Um, and cartpole just being a sanity
check. I'm not actually going to say,
"Oh, it works based on cartpole." It's
just like a bare minimum sanity.
That makes sense.
The heck?
Watch it.
I don't like
imaginear.
Where the heck is the distribution?
Wait, this gives you log.
This gives you logit before the
distribution, right?
And then they do
Wait, then they do get dissed on both of
these.
Okay.
And then the KL div
kind of weird.
Also, how is I don't understand how the
KL div is supposed to be
max
rep loss and 1.0.
It doesn't make sense to me.
What is the scale of this thing supposed
to be?
This is positive.
Yeah. Either sign. Okay.
designed for longer Ms.
robot arm end
handle task switching.
I would definitely try it on a lot of
our standard M that have been used in
benchmarks before first because like
trying something on a new environment is
always sketchy because you just never
know how well the baseline is optimized
on your new env.
I definitely do that.
Yeah. I don't understand how these two
fit together
at the risk of uh getting completely bad
information.
Let me think if I think it should be
expected.
Get like a complete mismatch, right?
popping log argument.
Do I have them backwards? I don't think
so.
Inputs targets
in log. Wait, tensor of arbitrary shape
in log props.
Tensor of same shape
as input.
Aren't you supposed to kale div the uh
the distribution, not the samples?
Wait, how the hell does this work?
So you do
you are calling get disc on the logs.
And this is doing
I mean this is giving you one hot
categoricals
right
so wait why is it like this does anybody
understand you're taking kale div
between samples of a one hot
instead of just between the logic
distribution.
I just passed logits.
The logits need to be
I didn't just pass logits. I passed the
samples.
Yeah. Okay.
I'm just trying to sanity check this
thing cuz something's like very wrong
with the uh the loss. Honestly, this
could be enough to be it on its own.
Like maybe once we have this fixed,
it'll work. We'll see.
exhausted today. My gosh.
I got back from the city with like
terrible migraine. Basically just passed
out. I got up this morning. I still did
my 10k. I did my lifts and then like I
was just starving. So finally got myself
a meal. But
I still just a bit off today.
I don't think I have these backwards,
right? Input target
should be applied directly to samples.
Am I just being completely stupid
somehow here in a way that I'm not
seeing?
I'm using it directly on samples from uh
from a categorical which is a valid
probability distribution.
Are you supposed to detach it though?
I think there is like there are some
stop grads that I'm not using.
Let's see.
Oops.
So, they do
They do this everywhere though.
Why would you do this?
You stop grad.
Oh, no, no, no. This is fine. Oh, wait.
They do stop grad on.
Well, there no parameters from the uh
the sample, right?
So, get disced.
that doesn't actually have any
parameters to it. So, it actually
shouldn't matter if you do it before or
after, right?
I think that's actually the same
What is the skill? K is supposed to be
positive, isn't it?
Actually, let's look up the other way.
Okay. So, yeah, I it definitely
shouldn't be negative, but it somehow is
the log probability.
one hot categorical, right? And then the
dynamics loss,
soft max or straight straight through
output rather than on log props.
Oh, because it wants log props for the
input.
I see
comment on what it's doing with tons of
comments.
Well, the thing is if your code doesn't
suck, you won't need them. The problem
is most code just sucks. Like when you
actually read a nice clean codebase, the
comments are honestly a distraction most
of the time.
It's like kind of just a band-aid patch
for major skill issue
with obvious exceptions, right? Like if
you're doing super heavy algorithmic
stuff like this, then yeah, sometimes.
But in this case, I think I just missed
something.
Yeah, I missed that this is log prop and
the target is not.
Wait, what are you supposed to do? cuz I
don't take
Let's see what they do in uh in this.
So, it's supposed to be
get dist, right? And then they do k
disc.
So, like get disc.
That's from Drax.
I want to get into that.
Um,
You just need to take a log of one of
these.
Yeah. What are these? Because these
aren't loits, right?
Oh, are you are these supposed to be
No, you are actually taking one hot,
right?
It doesn't necessarily make sense to me
that this is how it's done.
Like should I just take the logits from
the distribution and not the sample?
That doesn't seem to be how it's
implemented.
That stupid model so slow.
Yeah, you see these are definitely
it's called get dissed on this and they
get this one hot.
I don't know why.
Why do you take KL on the samples rather
than just on the distribution?
Oh, cuz the distribution is defined by
the sampling process, right?
Kind of weird though.
So I guess then the
the thing would be that the disc
operator here.
Yeah, disc has a KL div built in which
is in like Dax or whatever.
Hate Jack so much.
Want to hunt in here.
have
doesn't have a kale div on it.
What is a world model something like
genie? Not exactly. So the difference
between this and something like genie is
that the world model is being learned
live from interaction data. You're not
just training on a static data set. You
have you actually have to train on live
interaction data. Um,
so you're simultaneously learning a
policy
that interacts with the environment and
gathers better data and a world model
that tells you what's going to happen
next.
And the the thing that we actually care
about is not the world model, right? The
thing we actually care about is the
agent policy. The entire point of the
world model is to help us train a better
agent policy.
So according to this
and this is what I would expect
honestly.
We can try this.
Oh, wait. Am I
I guess cuz they don't call sample,
right?
Yeah. Yeah, they don't actually call
sample here. So, they're doing kale
between the distributions, which
probably reduces to kale between logits,
which is also why
the sample.
Yeah, that's also why they have the
sample. Okay.
So, you don't even need this crap at
all.
So, I can just do
like this, right?
Code and dynamics. X.
Yes.
That's right.
Then we do.
Hi man. Love to do some Q-learning. What
kind of project would you suggest me
for the sake of doing Q-learning or for
the sake of like trying to get RL to
work? Because like Q-learning is as a
base algorithm. It's a very bad
algorithm and you actually have to bolt
like a ton of stuff onto it to make it
at all work. like on policy RL is a lot
easier because the core algorithm is not
any more complicated and you don't have
to bolt on as much stuff before it
actually works. Um, I would just suggest
in general checking out my my RL guide.
I've kind of put all of my uh my stuff
into this. So, this is a complete
reference on
intro RL up to even advanced stuff.
Rock four good
near
uh I mean if you ask me none of the
models are really good. So
yeah I I really do not use LMS anywhere
near as much as as most people these
days. I'm not the person to ask.
I sometimes use it to sanity check stuff
and half the time even then it just
wastes my time.
This was kind of decent because it
caught something in the docks that I
didn't notice, but then I have no idea
if this is even remotely reasonable.
I did actually implement DQM the other
day, Weston in Puffer, and like yeah,
you can get it to solve cart pole, I
guess, but it's not a good algorithm.
It's very fiddly to actually even bolt
all the other stuff on to make it work.
Yeah. And it's kind of ironic that like
in some sense Google sucks now because
LLMs exist and have polluted the
internet, right?
You think about this Q learning is not
yet scalable.
What?
I think I've been linked this before.
Oh yeah. So off policy RL is just bad.
Um,
yeah, I actually understand why this is.
So,
on
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, this is this
is correct, but it's kind of missing the
point. I'll do a quick segment on this.
Why not?
I'm going to try to get the math as
correct as I can. Keep in mind I don't
do Actually, I'll go grab it from Sutton
so I get it right.
I don't know how I managed to misspell
both names.
Bootstrap thing.
There's the Q function formulation.
I'm trying to get the math right for
this.
I guess I can just get it from retrace,
right?
Well, I can probably do it well enough
from this. So, uh, here's the issue,
right?
the normal Q fun the normal Q
formulation
it's like
it's a onestep bootstrap right
yeah here it is
so it's
like R
Next.
Right?
It's something like this, right?
And this is a onestep bootstrap
because you're only looking at a
difference between a transition and the
next transition. one transition next
transition you get the reward plus the
discounted maximum value. So this idea
will show up in on policy off policy
everything. Um but you end up doing
something like you know reward at t plus
gamma
uh r
one
And
then you bootstrap like Q.
I believe this is how you would do it
for Q function. I know it's the value
function for um on Paul. So it should be
the same.
Actually, it might be the max here.
I think it is the max, right?
I think it is max.
Something like this. But anyways, so the
problem here,
you want to bootstrap over a segment.
Okay, but the problem is that the policy
has changed, right? So this data is off
policy and you go, oh well, it's an off
policy algorithm. It's supposed to work
for that, right? It works when you do
this because this is a one-step
bootstrap. So you're literally just
taking
uh if you take this action in this
state, then the path from there is as
follows. When you do this,
you are uh you're basically telling it
you're going through what if the Q
function follows a specific path of
actions or the policy follows a specific
path of actions that's no longer a
likely trajectory under the current
policy and you have to correct for this
with something like important sampling
and in fact I have this in the on policy
case but for the off policy case
you use something like retrace.
This is also in uh Sutton and Bardau as
well, but the explanation I'm going to
give you is not
the damn thing.
Okay.
Yeah. So, this is the uh the thing that
I just gave you, right? This is gamma to
the t
I think this is like a weird recursive
form actually, isn't it?
Oh yeah. Yeah, this is like this is a
recursive form because what happens
here, right, is that these all cancel
out.
It's so difficult to present this stuff
when the math is written differently in
every single possible place.
Wonder if BTO has a better Sutton and
Bart has a better.
Where the hell is this?
Yeah, it's an eligibility traces.
Okay, so this is more like similar to
the thing that I wrote out, right? So
reward t+1, gamma, reward t+2, so on and
so forth. and then gamma n they have it
as a value function or whatever here
instead of a Q function no big deal this
is your endstep bootstrap
and then the key thing here where they
have the important sampling
they're doing it here with the
is it
this is like a subtle but very important
point that I discovered recently
Well, this kind of shows it to you. Um,
the idea though is that
why does nobody even ever have a clean
mathematical form of this thing? This is
why it's so hard to like learn anything.
Literally, nobody ever has a clean
formulation of it.
It's actually kind of a difficult
exercise to make sure and get all your
notation correct. The idea is quite
simple. The math is sort of a pain.
I guess this is the best we're going to
get. Uh the idea is that you're going to
weight your samples by a probability
ratio of how likely you were to take the
you're going to be to take the action
under the current policy versus under
the policy that you used when you were
collecting the data. And what happens
with this
is that you can write this out and this
should actually give you a stable
endstep bootstrap update. But the way
that it actually does this is just by
downweing data that's too far from the
uh the policy that you collected the
data with. So like the way that you
actually make off policy work with long
horizons is by ignoring the long horizon
data.
You do not have this pol this problem in
on policy learning. So that is actually
the technical reason that this happens.
And this is
this is a band-aid patch,
right? This is like a super super
band-aid patch.
And the horizon reduction endstep return
for instance, like this is a band-aid
patch because you have to also do
important sampling and you end up just
sort of ignoring your data.
So, so far like yes, we don't actually
this is true. We don't have this. Um,
and you actually don't even necessarily
need this to be the case because if
modelbased RL works, modelbased RL lets
you do it basically lets you do
unlimited on policy RL uh with respect
to the world model. You basically you
don't actually need to solve this
problem necessarily. Like there are
viable alternatives.
I didn't understand this fully even a
couple of months ago. It's taken a lot
of going through really complicated
stuff to figure that out.
Welcome Kilo. adding ramping noise on
stagnation a good you really if your if
your base model is any good like you
shouldn't have to hack the state space
model formulation in a bunch of
different ways to make it work kind of
just flailing
Go away bot.
Hey spirit.
All right. And then you no longer have
this
good thing.
uh really this
tharning is not very useful. Uh, I've
definitely in the last couple weeks I've
been more bearish on it since the I mean
I did a fair bit of like off policy
stuff experimentally and puffer in the
last week or so, last two weeks and it
really didn't seem very promising. Some
messages not arriving. Yeah, X does
that. I'm also on YouTube and Twitch. I
think Twitch is the best about not
dropping messages, but sometimes they
all do it.
To be fair, it could also be reream
being weird.
Why are these logits like this?
Kind of weird.
I guess not.
I have MSC in computer science.
My chances are
MIT
recommendation letters,
sound researcher, and Oracle. No
scientific. Yeah, the no scientific
publications is the thing that's going
to get you.
like pretty much everybody
doing a PhD at least in the US at the
top few institutions has already has um
like scientific publications
like maybe if you happen to have like
very strongly overlapping research with
a specific professor that's the tough
like I'd basically been doing full-time
uh full-time academic research for three
years already um before I got to my PhD.
Oh yeah, also the other thing is um
typically in the US you uh you don't do
an MS before your PhD
like in it's different in in Europe but
like typically you don't get a master's
before your PhD
and yeah definitely if you have done a
mast's then you should have research as
Well,
like it's different in Europe. I don't
know if they're like different
considerations given to European
students, but um at least yeah, in the
US that wouldn't Fly
virgin.
I don't know what publication is like in
that area.
Norms could be different there
potentially.
I mean, the best thing to figure out an
unpublished in a journal conference.
Like the best thing honestly to do is to
like actually find and like get to like
talk to the students of a professor
who's doing stuff adjacent to your work
and then potentially get a meeting with
the professor from there.
Cuz otherwise if you don't have standout
stuff, it's like very difficult just
being in a random pile of applicants.
Yeah,
I know. My deal was like I didn't have I
didn't have a 40 from my university, but
then again, you're not necessarily
expected to. Um, but like I had been
like I published my sophomore year my
first like solo author NLP research. I
did some computer vision research that
had manuscripts but wasn't published. Uh
I did some RL at OpenAI and then I uh
the professor I worked with I'd worked
with at OpenAI. He went to be a
professor. So obviously he already knew
and worked with me. And the way it works
in the US is like if a professor wants
to work with you, they just pull your
application from stack, right? That's
kind of how it works at least for um for
PhD.
And uh I also got in at CMU
um like without any contacts.
Uh CMU is like a very meritocratic
place. So like if you have good research
that typically happens, but then I was
not going to be in a spot where I was
going to like work with a professor I
didn't even know, right? Obviously I go
to MIT
you learning guy hopefully arrest
survive you learn not you're very useful
policy wing on policy training
well that's part of it that's more
advanced the main thing that's going to
be a pain for you for Q-learning is like
the comparison is not DQN to PO or
something it's going to be like rainbow
to PPO and rainbow is a super messy
algorithm where you have to like bolt on
a ton of stuff before it remotely works.
Whereas PO is a much simpler algorithm
that really you only have like one kind
of difficult thing to implement before
it just works
and you have way better references as
well.
That's probably the main consideration
for you.
It really depends on your goal, right?
Like if you're trying to learn this
stuff in this space, I would just follow
my guide.
Like RL is legitimately an area where
the most productive thing you can do
when you're learning is not necessarily
to implement the algorithms from scratch
because like it's not like oh I'm
studying basic new algorithms let me go
implement like depth first search or
whatever. Um
it's the algorithms are very fiddly and
they're very minor details that matter a
lot. They're not based on anything other
than just like empirical testing.
So like actually I generally suggest
people implement new environments and
new problems uh and use them with
existing highquality implementation
rather than try to make their own
implementation like making a good
implementation even if a common RL
algorithm is actually a pretty advanced
thing to do.
an idea on how to improve Q-learning.
Well, the thing is actually it's likely
to work because the problem with like oh
how do I improve Q-learning is that
Q-learning itself is such a weak
benchmark that basically anything will
improve Q-learning.
like coming up with something that
improves Q-learning actually is not
meaningful on its own. You need to have
like an optimized version of one of the
much fancier off policy algorithms
that's extensively tested and then you
can see if it improves.
That's the problem
to be fair. Plenty of stuff gets
published of the form like, yeah, I did
this on top of DQN and it makes it work
better, but like it's not good research.
Really not good research.
Okay. So, I mean, this kind of works
now. I have no idea if we're doing this
remotely correctly.
Ooh.
Okay. That's still super unstable, but
that's better.
Yeah. Yeah, that's way better.
Okay.
I would suggest reading some of my
guides because a lot of this context is
like not stuff you're going to get out
of Sutton and Bardau or like standard
resources in RL.
It's like stuff that the people who have
been in this base pick up on over time
and I try to make I try to put a lot of
that knowledge out there
as best as I can.
This actually works.
Am I so tired? Holy hell.
I got what like should have been 10
hours of sleep.
Always messes me up.
Okay, where do we go from here? Um,
probably want to log some additional
losses, right?
Yeah. So these are like way too small,
right?
These are like way too small.
ask a few questions on this.
If I do this, does it make a difference?
into a bed. Looks like you're making
progress. Yeah, thanks.
It makes progress. It's just very
unstable, I think.
Yeah, it's got to be like something
where it's fighting the uh the quality
of the world model or something.
This actually does look like it scales
with compute though, way better than uh
before,
which would make sense.
Now, if we can just make it stable.
Let's figure out the loss scale, I
think.
Yeah, let's figure out the loss scale.
Go get myself a drink as well. Hydrated
here.
figure out these uh this lost scale
thing cuz something's weird to me There.
notifications.
Oh yeah, from the stream.
scale seems really off, right?
You can see it jumping.
It crashes.
Jumps up and it crashes.
Total Kale,
Well, also we don't know.
Are these all supposed to be sampled
separately?
Look at this for a little bit.
have your RSSM.
You get your
stick.
is yeah
returns everything.
Yeah. Ask away.
Hey, bet
useful. Do you think models?
Um, I don't think that I could be wrong
on this, but I don't think you're going
to be able to use them for RL
because like
I think that the world model formulation
where you're doing you're training the
world model jointly with RL that makes
sense. I don't think you can just take
the world model training away and do RL
on that and have it work because I
basically you're literally RLing the
model to poke holes in your world model
and that's like a closed loop in RL cuz
like you're also training the world
model.
you got like this back and forth process
which kind of makes sense here but
that's not the case um if you stop
training the world model
like technically yes with a perfect
world model it makes sense but what the
heck does a perfect world model even
mean for like arbitrary arbitrary
environments
not even well defined
much less obtainable
Yeah, you can use them for other
purposes for sure,
but I don't see fundamentally how you
like use them as a replacement for an RL
environment,
which is one of the things DeepMind has
said that they want to do. That part
doesn't make sense to me. Possible
I'm missing something, but I don't think
so.
Yep. Fton.
Use
star puffer. Use star puffer. It helps
me out a lot.
You ever look into
Thank you. Bet is our uh a resident
advertiser around here. Throwing the
repo actually helps us out a ton. That
actually really helps.
You ever look to other ML research? I
mean, occasionally I look at stuff.
There's a lot to keep up with. I look to
other things for inspiration for sure.
But we have a pretty clear path forward,
I think, with a lot of the stuff we're
doing with Puffer right now. The only
uncertainty in my mind is like
pretty much whether this is going to be
the way to get us uh high sample
efficiency RL or not.
Like even if this doesn't if this
completely fails like I still have stuff
I can do with puffer. It limits us a
little bit
but like there's still a ton of stuff we
could do.
Even if it turns out like which doesn't
seem to be the case that sample
efficient RL is just impossible.
Um which it really doesn't seem to be
the case like there's still tons of
stuff I can do.
Okay, so this is what we expect.
Pretty familiar with self-supervised ML
and world modeling into RL, but I'm very
new to RL. Yeah. So the thing that makes
RL very very hard right
is because you're interacting with an
environment there's this whole
additional layer your data distribution
moves out from under you and there's a
bunch of additional engineering right so
I've made a huge dent in making that
easier with puffer but fundamentally
like except for very large model scaling
like RL's kind of the hardest thing you
can do in AI
I've worked in NLP I've worked in vision
it's way easier
RL is just like actually really hard.
We're making it easier. I mean, heck, we
have brand new programmers getting some
stuff working, but pushing the
state-of-the-art research is still quite
tricky.
Godsend.
That's the goal.
I mean, the cool thing with Puffer,
right, is pretty much without me even
discovering anything crazy new, just
literally doing what I'm doing. Um,
I can pretty much guarantee that the
future of RL is bright. Literally, just
by if I keep doing what I'm doing, we
assume that like I managed to make
Puffer a bit simpler than it is now and
like relatively closer to um like actual
flops that you should expect out of your
GPU.
like just doing those two things, it's
already in a good spot. But of course,
that's not all I'm doing, right? I'm
also making more breakthroughs all the
time.
at least fairly consistently.
I think this is correct, isn't it?
Is it different?
or disc manp
head.
Yeah, this is fine.
I think I have this mostly
mostly correct
the other losses in here.
Any stop grads?
I think so.
I guess let's check the um
check like the decoder loss and the ops
loss.
Yes, these seem fine. Let's check
the decoder loss in here.
No, it's not.
I think this is the full
the full method really.
Reconstruction laws does not yet demand
more expressive latence.
Tail regularizer is overly strong.
Okay.
There. Are we just another
what
only?
I have no idea what that is.
A huge match. What
is a bit sus?
Yeah. So, it doesn't work without uh
without this loss. So, there's something
scaled screwy here
cuz you definitely need this loss, but
the scaling is off.
Reconstruction loss Yeah.
Why do you compute advantage two times
in the training loop? What do you use
each advantage for? Um,
I actually don't know why the heck I
have that override in the second one. I
noticed that the other day, but the idea
is that you compute it over everything
in order to know what are the highest
advantage uh sections or segments to
sample because like every time you do an
update, the advantage changes for
literally everything.
Uh and then I believe
we do it after that to get the advantage
for the specific mini batch. I'm trying
to remember why the heck there's
something that can change. I think it's
the important sampling ratio if I recall
correctly that can change.
There's probably a way to do it with one
loop. Well, maybe not. I do remember
there being a reason for me having to do
it twice that I couldn't get around
though.
Let me see if I can if I can just
remember off the top of uh not off the
top of my head off of a quick look.
I remember there being something about
like importance ratio changing.
Yeah, it might.
There was a thing with that though.
Oh, am I? Hey, I'm on the totally wrong
file.
Yeah. So I compute it here so that I can
sample right and then I recomputee it
for
what the ratio.
Shouldn't it not change?
Huh?
It shouldn't change, right?
It should change after you step the
policy.
No, no, no, wait. I know what it is.
Okay, so what it is here, this is what
it is.
Here's what it is, Carlos. The value
from the value gets stale. Okay, so you
need this new value estimate here. And I
don't know why I overwrite it with MB
advantages. I think this is an error.
Um, but the idea that I had with this
originally is that you need the new
value function so that you can compute
this new ratio.
That's what it was.
Or you use the new ratio rather which is
based on the new value.
Yeah. Because when you compute it up
top, right, you don't actually you don't
refresh the value function for every
single update. Even though this changes
from mini batch to mini batch, like
values is going to get stale and
therefore ratio gets stale. So that's
why it was two passes.
There you go.
If you wanted to just race, you could
eval the model. But why? You can't
evaluate it on everything though,
Carlos? Because you don't want to do a
you don't want to have to do a forward
pass over your entire batch for every
mini batch, right?
So the advantage estimation is kind of
rough because it can get stale for other
data. But at least when you go to do a
new mini batch uh since you're already
recomputing the value function anyways,
you can actually compute a fresh
advantage for that batch
because you use advantage to wait the
update and you want a fresh advantage
update. You want a fresh advantage
estimate. It doesn't really cost you
anything to do it either. Like computing
advantage is very fast.
The only thing that costs you is doing
forward passes through the network
redundantly. But this is a trade-off
between those Oh,
I mean, this is not bad at the least.
Now, do I run a sweep actually
or is there more stuff I haven't
implemented?
I mean, this is
If we do this version of it.
Fine. Nice trick. Yeah. So, I don't
actually know why I reset the advantage
to be the MB advantage, but
the rest of it was because of that. I
probably what happened is I left that
thing in and then I like I probably ran
all my tests not realizing I left that
thing in and then went, well, I'm not
going to go rerun all the tests just to
delete that one little that one tiny
thing. So, I mean, you're free to like
take it out and see if it makes a
difference or not.
You go. Good luck with coding. Thanks
for all the info. Yeah, of course.
I got you.
Okay. So,
couple things.
Since you're predicting,
there's the advantage normalization.
Oh, there is no advantage norm in here,
right?
What?
make it better or worse.
like substantially better now.
Test function closing.
Yeah. Well, you don't generally want
that to be the case, right?
RGI.
Uh the problem bet is that like
they're puzzles that rely on human
intuition. You can't actually learn to
solve the puzzles just via only seeing
the puzzles.
Like you'd have to just bake a bunch of
visual priors into the model for that to
work.
or Something.
Okay.
That wasn't it.
A meeting in like 20 minutes.
make this thing more stable
loss.
We have um
have all this already.
I mean, we could just launch um
basic sweep of this, right?
Kind of already
do this for now.
Just set up
It does have the property at least of
like it seems like it does get a little
better when you run more compute.
But we also haven't done the uh the
experience buffer at all. Obviously,
that's another thing to do, right?
That makes it better though.
Maybe.
So, this is pushed.
Uh, I need Neptune token, right?
So, see, this is when I had it broken.
Yes. Yeah.
[Music]
How did that not get set?
It literally just did.
This just threw in
Yeah, free token. You get to log some uh
you can write some logs here.
Free logging to free account.
Free public account, mind you. All the
experiments are public anyways.
Good find.
Cool.
So, this will run. Possibly. We'll find
some uh good settings. We shall see. I
got a meeting to get ready for in like
10 minutes. Um so, I think I'm going to
do that for today. We found one problem.
I think there probably more things wrong
with this. Uh we're going to need to do
the experience buffer most likely and
there's a heck of a lot of stuff for us
to do still, right? But at the very
least, it now is uh in the realm of like
kind of working. So
this is a much better starting point.
As long as we have something that kind
of works, I'm happy to like keep pushing
on it. So very good. Um for the folks
watching today, yep, just short stream.
Um,
I will be here all day tomorrow.
I usually stream all day on Saturdays.
If you are interested in my work
generally, puffer.ai for all the things.
The repo free helps me out a ton. Other
than that, Discord if you want to get
involved. X if you want more RL content.
Bye.